docs/content/usage/packages/cargo.en-us.md, before:

---
date: "2022-11-20T00:00:00+00:00"
title: "Cargo Package Registry"
slug: "cargo"
sidebar_position: 5
draft: false
toc: false
menu:
  sidebar:
    parent: "packages"
    name: "Cargo"
    sidebar_position: 5
    identifier: "cargo"
---

# Cargo Package Registry

Publish [Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/cargo/) packages for your user or organization.

## Requirements

To work with the Cargo package registry, you need [Rust and Cargo](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install).

Cargo stores information about the available packages in a package index stored in a git repository.
This repository is needed to work with the registry.
The following section describes how to create it.

## Index Repository

Cargo stores information about the available packages in a package index stored in a git repository.
In Gitea this repository has the special name `_cargo-index`.
After a package was uploaded, its metadata is automatically written to the index.
The content of this repository should not be manually modified.

The user or organization package settings page allows to create the index repository along with the configuration file.
If needed this action will rewrite the configuration file.
This can be useful if for example the Gitea instance domain was changed.

If the case arises where the packages stored in Gitea and the information in the index repository are out of sync, the settings page allows to rebuild the index repository.
This action iterates all packages in the registry and writes their information to the index.
If there are lot of packages this process may take some time.

## Configuring the package registry

To register the package registry the Cargo configuration must be updated.
Add the following text to the configuration file located in the current users home directory (for example `~/.cargo/config.toml`):

```
[registry]
default = "gitea"

[registries.gitea]
index = "sparse+https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/cargo/" # Sparse index
# index = "https://gitea.example.com/{owner}/_cargo-index.git" # Git

# [net]
# git-fetch-with-cli = true
```

| Parameter | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `owner`   | The owner of the package. |

If the registry is private or you want to publish new packages, you have to configure your credentials.
Add the credentials section to the credentials file located in the current users home directory (for example `~/.cargo/credentials.toml`):

```
[registries.gitea]
token = "Bearer {token}"
```

| Parameter | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `token`   | Your [personal access token](development/api-usage.md#authentication) |

## Git vs Sparse

Currently, cargo supports two ways for fetching crates in a registry: Git index & sparse index.
Sparse index is the newest method and offers better performance when updating crates compared to git.
Since Rust 1.68, sparse is the default method for crates.io.

## Publish a package

Publish a package by running the following command in your project:

```shell
cargo publish
```

You cannot publish a package if a package of the same name and version already exists. You must delete the existing package first.

## Install a package

To install a package from the package registry, execute the following command:

```shell
cargo add {package_name}
```

| Parameter      | Description |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| `package_name` | The package name. |

## Supported commands

```
cargo publish
cargo add
cargo install
cargo yank
cargo unyank
cargo search
```

Commit message:

fix wrong http status about package and align the docs

docs/content/usage/packages/cargo.en-us.md, after:

---
date: "2022-11-20T00:00:00+00:00"
title: "Cargo Package Registry"
slug: "cargo"
sidebar_position: 5
draft: false
toc: false
menu:
  sidebar:
    parent: "packages"
    name: "Cargo"
    sidebar_position: 5
    identifier: "cargo"
---

# Cargo Package Registry

Publish [Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/cargo/) packages for your user or organization.

## Requirements

To work with the Cargo package registry, you need [Rust and Cargo](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install).

Cargo stores information about the available packages in a package index stored in a git repository.
This repository is needed to work with the registry.
The following section describes how to create it.

## Index Repository

Cargo stores information about the available packages in a package index stored in a git repository.
In Gitea this repository has the special name `_cargo-index`.
After a package was uploaded, its metadata is automatically written to the index.
The content of this repository should not be manually modified.

The user or organization package settings page allows to create the index repository along with the configuration file.
If needed this action will rewrite the configuration file.
This can be useful if for example the Gitea instance domain was changed.

If the case arises where the packages stored in Gitea and the information in the index repository are out of sync, the settings page allows to rebuild the index repository.
This action iterates all packages in the registry and writes their information to the index.
If there are lot of packages this process may take some time.

## Configuring the package registry

To register the package registry the Cargo configuration must be updated.
Add the following text to the configuration file located in the current users home directory (for example `~/.cargo/config.toml`):

```
[registry]
default = "gitea"

[registries.gitea]
index = "sparse+https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/cargo/" # Sparse index
# index = "https://gitea.example.com/{owner}/_cargo-index.git" # Git

# [net]
# git-fetch-with-cli = true
```

| Parameter | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `owner`   | The owner of the package. |

If the registry is private or you want to publish new packages, you have to configure your credentials.
Add the credentials section to the credentials file located in the current users home directory (for example `~/.cargo/credentials.toml`):

```
[registries.gitea]
token = "Bearer {token}"
```

| Parameter | Description |
| --------- | ----------- |
| `token`   | Your [personal access token](development/api-usage.md#authentication) |

## Git vs Sparse

Currently, cargo supports two ways for fetching crates in a registry: Git index & sparse index.
Sparse index is the newest method and offers better performance when updating crates compared to git.
Since Rust 1.68, sparse is the default method for crates.io.

## Publish a package

Publish a package by running the following command in your project:

```shell
cargo publish
```

You cannot publish a package if a package of the same name and version already exists. You must delete the existing package first.

The server responds with the following HTTP Status codes.

| HTTP Status Code  | Meaning |
| ----------------- | ------- |
| `201 Created`     | The package has been published. |
| `400 Bad Request` | The package name, version, distribution, component or architecture are invalid. |
| `409 Conflict`    | A package file with the same combination of parameters exists already. |

## Install a package

To install a package from the package registry, execute the following command:

```shell
cargo add {package_name}
```

| Parameter      | Description |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| `package_name` | The package name. |

## Supported commands

```
cargo publish
cargo add
cargo install
cargo yank
cargo unyank
cargo search
```
