docs/content/usage/packages/maven.en-us.md, before:

---
date: "2021-07-20T00:00:00+00:00"
title: "Maven Package Registry"
slug: "maven"
sidebar_position: 60
draft: false
toc: false
menu:
  sidebar:
    parent: "packages"
    name: "Maven"
    sidebar_position: 60
    identifier: "maven"
---

# Maven Package Registry

Publish [Maven](https://maven.apache.org) packages for your user or organization.

## Requirements

To work with the Maven package registry, you can use [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/install.html) or [Gradle](https://gradle.org/install/).
The following examples use `Maven` and `Gradle Groovy`.

## Configuring the package registry

To register the package registry you first need to add your access token to the [`settings.xml`](https://maven.apache.org/settings.html) file:

```xml
<settings>
  <servers>
    <server>
      <id>gitea</id>
      <configuration>
        <httpHeaders>
          <property>
            <name>Authorization</name>
            <value>token {access_token}</value>
          </property>
        </httpHeaders>
      </configuration>
    </server>
  </servers>
</settings>
```

Afterwards add the following sections to your project `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<repositories>
  <repository>
    <id>gitea</id>
    <url>https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven</url>
  </repository>
</repositories>
<distributionManagement>
  <repository>
    <id>gitea</id>
    <url>https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven</url>
  </repository>
  <snapshotRepository>
    <id>gitea</id>
    <url>https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven</url>
  </snapshotRepository>
</distributionManagement>
```

| Parameter      | Description |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| `access_token` | Your [personal access token](development/api-usage.md#authentication). |
| `owner`        | The owner of the package. |

### Gradle variant

When you plan to add some packages from Gitea instance in your project, you should add it in repositories section:

```groovy
repositories {
    // other repositories
    maven { url "https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven" }
}
```

In Groovy gradle you may include next script in your publishing part:

```groovy
publishing {
    // other settings of publication
    repositories {
        maven {
            name = "Gitea"
            url = uri("https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven")

            credentials(HttpHeaderCredentials) {
                name = "Authorization"
                value = "token {access_token}"
            }

            authentication {
                header(HttpHeaderAuthentication)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## Publish a package

To publish a package simply run:

```shell
mvn deploy
```

Or call `gradle` with task `publishAllPublicationsToGiteaRepository` in case you are using gradle:

```groovy
./gradlew publishAllPublicationsToGiteaRepository
```

If you want to publish a prebuild package to the registry, you can use [`mvn deploy:deploy-file`](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-deploy-plugin/deploy-file-mojo.html):

```shell
mvn deploy:deploy-file -Durl=https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven -DrepositoryId=gitea -Dfile=/path/to/package.jar
```

| Parameter      | Description |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| `owner`        | The owner of the package. |

You cannot publish a package if a package of the same name and version already exists. You must delete the existing package first.

## Install a package

To install a Maven package from the package registry, add a new dependency to your project `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.test.package</groupId>
  <artifactId>test_project</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

And analog in gradle groovy:

```groovy
implementation "com.test.package:test_project:1.0.0"
```

Afterwards run:

```shell
mvn install
```

## Supported commands

```
mvn install
mvn deploy
mvn dependency:get:
```

Commit message:

fix wrong http status about package and align the docs

docs/content/usage/packages/maven.en-us.md, after:

---
date: "2021-07-20T00:00:00+00:00"
title: "Maven Package Registry"
slug: "maven"
sidebar_position: 60
draft: false
toc: false
menu:
  sidebar:
    parent: "packages"
    name: "Maven"
    sidebar_position: 60
    identifier: "maven"
---

# Maven Package Registry

Publish [Maven](https://maven.apache.org) packages for your user or organization.

## Requirements

To work with the Maven package registry, you can use [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/install.html) or [Gradle](https://gradle.org/install/).
The following examples use `Maven` and `Gradle Groovy`.

## Configuring the package registry

To register the package registry you first need to add your access token to the [`settings.xml`](https://maven.apache.org/settings.html) file:

```xml
<settings>
  <servers>
    <server>
      <id>gitea</id>
      <configuration>
        <httpHeaders>
          <property>
            <name>Authorization</name>
            <value>token {access_token}</value>
          </property>
        </httpHeaders>
      </configuration>
    </server>
  </servers>
</settings>
```

Afterwards add the following sections to your project `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<repositories>
  <repository>
    <id>gitea</id>
    <url>https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven</url>
  </repository>
</repositories>
<distributionManagement>
  <repository>
    <id>gitea</id>
    <url>https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven</url>
  </repository>
  <snapshotRepository>
    <id>gitea</id>
    <url>https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven</url>
  </snapshotRepository>
</distributionManagement>
```

| Parameter      | Description |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| `access_token` | Your [personal access token](development/api-usage.md#authentication). |
| `owner`        | The owner of the package. |

### Gradle variant

When you plan to add some packages from Gitea instance in your project, you should add it in repositories section:

```groovy
repositories {
    // other repositories
    maven { url "https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven" }
}
```

In Groovy gradle you may include next script in your publishing part:

```groovy
publishing {
    // other settings of publication
    repositories {
        maven {
            name = "Gitea"
            url = uri("https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven")

            credentials(HttpHeaderCredentials) {
                name = "Authorization"
                value = "token {access_token}"
            }

            authentication {
                header(HttpHeaderAuthentication)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## Publish a package

To publish a package simply run:

```shell
mvn deploy
```

Or call `gradle` with task `publishAllPublicationsToGiteaRepository` in case you are using gradle:

```groovy
./gradlew publishAllPublicationsToGiteaRepository
```

If you want to publish a prebuild package to the registry, you can use [`mvn deploy:deploy-file`](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-deploy-plugin/deploy-file-mojo.html):

```shell
mvn deploy:deploy-file -Durl=https://gitea.example.com/api/packages/{owner}/maven -DrepositoryId=gitea -Dfile=/path/to/package.jar
```

| Parameter      | Description |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| `owner`        | The owner of the package. |

You cannot publish a package if a package of the same name and version already exists. You must delete the existing package first.

The server responds with the following HTTP Status codes.

| HTTP Status Code  | Meaning |
| ----------------- | ------- |
| `201 Created`     | The package has been published. |
| `400 Bad Request` | The package name, version, distribution, component or architecture are invalid. |
| `409 Conflict`    | A package file with the same combination of parameters exists already. |

## Install a package

To install a Maven package from the package registry, add a new dependency to your project `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.test.package</groupId>
  <artifactId>test_project</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

And analog in gradle groovy:

```groovy
implementation "com.test.package:test_project:1.0.0"
```

Afterwards run:

```shell
mvn install
```

## Supported commands

```
mvn install
mvn deploy
mvn dependency:get:
```
